Software development alludes to the production, testing, implementation and maintenance of software applications and software related systems.
Software engineering, based on my opinion, refers to the the development of software applications and software related systems such as Microsoft. Today, software engineering involves the use of Artificial Intelligence and automated systems, this way, there is minimal room for error and systems developed are able to adapt,however traditional programming solely, relies on the prowess of skilled programmers to write and subsequently write code. Additionally, such code is majorly written to run a specific task.
The stages involved in the software development life cycle include: planning, requirements analysis, design, coding, testing, deployment, and lastly, maintenance. The following steps have been listed respectively. Planning is a crucial stage, in that, it is important to understand the reason as to why you are developing a particular software program and ask yourself the following questions. Why is it important to develop this program? What do I possibly hope to achieve? Is it a plausible and realistic software ideation? What role will I as the developer play in developing the program?  Secondly, it is important to evaluate the necessary requirements for the development of the software program.
The waterfall model is a step by step method where each stage must be finalized prior to commencement of the subsequent one whereas agile methodology focuses on the flexibility and customer satisfication by continuosly delivering functional software components.
